Warn about relative URIs in "type" and "instance" (#20)
ietf-wg-httpapi/rfc7807bis: draft-ietf-httpapi-rfc7807bis.md

A problem details object can have the following members:

> ## "type"

Reviewer: Thumbs up for giving each member a heading. 👍🏼

Author: :)

The "type" member is a JSON string containing a URI reference {{RFC3986}} that identifies the problem type.

This specification encourages that, when dereferenced, it provide human-readable documentation for the problem type (e.g., using HTML {{HTML5}}). When this member is not present, its value is assumed to be "about:blank".

> While relative URIs are allowed in "type", it is RECOMMENDED that only absolute URIs be used, to avoid confusion. For example, if "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://api.example.org/widget/456" both use the "example-problem" URI reference, they will identify different resources, which is counter-intuitive for many users.

Reviewer: This is a great improvement, but I think we should be even more verbose with the example to explain thoroughly what the issue with relative URIs is and not expect everyone to know relative URI resolving by heart. Below is a suggestion for how to make this paragraph even clearer.

```suggestion
While relative URIs are allowed in "type", it is RECOMMENDED that only absolute URIs be used, to avoid confusion. For example, if the two resources "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://api.example.org/widget/456" both respond with a "type" equal to the relative URI reference "example-problem", when resolved they will identify different resources ("https://api.example.org/foo/bar/example-problem" and "https://api.example.org/widget/example-problem" respectively), which is counter-intuitive for many users.
```

> While relative URIs are allowed in "type", it is RECOMMENDED that only absolute URIs be used, to avoid confusion. For example, if the two resources "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://api.example.org/widget/456" both respond with a "type" equal to the relative URI reference "example-problem", when resolved they will identify different resources ("https://api.example.org/foo/bar/example-problem" and "https://api.example.org/widget/example-problem" respectively), which is counter-intuitive for many users.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth mentioning that this isn't just counter-intuitive, but is actually handled wrongly by most existing implementations? Similar to GET with a body in the HTTP RFC, where it says

> sending a payload body on a GET request might cause some existing implementations to reject the request.

Maybe here something like:

> ...which is counter-intuitive for many users, and might be misinterpreted by some existing implementations.

This would help readers to better understand the practical impact of ignoring this recommendation: there is a very real possibility that tools will handle this incorrectly.

Author: Good suggestion; will add something along those lines.

> While relative URIs are allowed in "type", it is RECOMMENDED that only absolute URIs be used, to avoid confusion. For example, if the two resources "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://api.example.org/widget/456" both respond with a "type" equal to the relative URI reference "example-problem", when resolved they will identify different resources ("https://api.example.org/foo/bar/example-problem" and "https://api.example.org/widget/example-problem" respectively), which is counter-intuitive for many users.

Reviewer 2: Do we have a recommendation on relative-host absolute-path URIs, e.g. `/problems/example-problem`?

These are encouraged today as the best option in [some existing popular API style guides](https://github.com/zalando/restful-api-guidelines/blob/master/chapters/http-status-codes-and-errors.adoc#must-support-problem-json), so could be worth an explicit mention.

I'm not actually sure the best position is here: they're still potentially slightly confusing but "it's an error code scoped to the whole origin" is much less tricky that the fully relative case imo.

If we think that these are discouraged too, as the current text implies since they are indeed relative URIs, then it still might be useful to explicitly include them in the explanation here, since they do behave somewhat differently and they're in real use today.

If we think that they're actually OK, then it would definitely be good to clarify why this is different from fully relative URIs like `example-problem`, and be clear that they're not recommended against in the same way.

Author: Also a good point; will refine this.

When "type" contains a relative URI, it is resolved relative to the document's base URI, as per {{RFC3986, Section 5}}.

> Consumers MUST use the "type" URI (after resolution, if necessary) as the primary identifier for the problem type. Consumers SHOULD NOT automatically dereference the type URI.

Reviewer: Perhaps we should say something about dereferencing being encouraged on user interaction, such as clicking a button in a UI or similar? It would be good to give ideas about how the `type` URI is intended to be used for human-readable documentation in practice, imho.

Author: That sounds like a separate issue, maybe #13.

Reviewer: Agreed

Consumers can use the status member to determine what the original status code used by the generator was, in cases where it has been changed (e.g., by an intermediary or cache), and when message bodies persist without HTTP information. Generic HTTP software will still use the HTTP status code.

## "detail"

The "detail" member is a JSON string containing a human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem.

The "detail" member, if present, ought to focus on helping the client correct the problem, rather than giving debugging information.

Consumers SHOULD NOT parse the "detail" member for information; extensions are more suitable and less error-prone ways to obtain such information.

## "instance"

The "instance" member is a JSON string containing a URI reference that identifies the specific occurrence of the problem. It may or may not yield further information if dereferenced.

> While relative URIs are allowed in "instance", it is RECOMMENDED that only absolute URIs be used, to avoid confusion. For example, if "https://api.example.org/foo/bar/123" and "https://api.example.org/widget/456" both use the "example-problem" URI reference, they will identify different resources, which is counter-intuitive for many users.

Reviewer: If the similar paragraph for "type" is modified, this paragraph should be modified to remain consistent with it.
